Testing, testing, Friday, Friday. Testing,
testing.
When we quit last Friday, we had you finish your
freshman year. What did you do that summer after
your freshman year? Well, as I indicated earlier,
I had this agreement with my parents who couldn't
support me, but they offered to pay me, I think,
$600 room and board to work on the farm that summer.
So that's what I did, and I worked pretty hard. One
of the interesting experiences that was, the work
was pretty hard and pretty hot in the summer, but we
did have a good tradition of about a two hour break
at midday to get away from the heat. Started early,
had dinner, and then took a nice lap and worked till
late, you know, dark at night. made it very
difficult when you came back to September and had a
one o'clock class to stay awake. Your work day on
the farm began at what time? Daylight? Yeah,
daylight. I guess that was before daylight
saving. They used daylight saving time during the
war, but they dropped it after the war. So it was
basically, we had a very heavy routine. We had
usually up around six, and at that time my sister
had already left so there were only three of us and
it'd be an hour hour and a half of doing the chores
because we had cows about 20 cows to milk chickens
to feed hogs to feed sheep everything else my
mother usually left about 20 minutes before and
after about an hour and a half we ate breakfast and
that's why i'm still a big breakfast eater because
you were really ready to eat and then you went out
and do the fields and then what had to be done in the
fields worked till noon had a pretty good meal at
noon and in the summertime you rest at during the
period, during the heat of the day, and then went
back out around 2 or 2.30 and worked till dark,
which was 7, 8 o'clock. So you were grateful for the
opportunity to come back to school. I've often
heard many Aggies say that many Baptist ministers
got their call in the middle of a patch in August.
All right, you came back as a sophomore and lived
where? Well, the old company that I had been in had
been broken up and had been assigned to D
Artillery. I think just arbitrarily. I don't know
that I had a choice. I don't remember having a
choice. But that was the year, this was 46, when the
things really bulged, because that's when the
veterans really came back in. And there was a huge
housing shortage. And that's when they went to
three to a room. And if you're familiar with the
dormitories over in the new dorm area, the core
area, those rooms are barely big enough for two.
And they actually put a triple, another bunk on top
of the two bunks to save a little space. There
really wasn't much space for a table or anybody
else. So it was a very difficult circumstance. And
of course, my own situation was working in the
library. I still did most of my studying at the
library and stayed in the room just the minimum
period that I had. And also, as I said, probably
escaped some of the activities that I didn't want
to participate in. How did three roommates decide
who slept on the top and who on the bottom? Some of it
was tar plays, I guess, and some of it was, I think
most of the time it was by flipping coins or
something like that. And we took turns. I think
that's what we usually, I mean, we often took
turns, I think. And some just had preferences for
one thing or the other.
Was there an effort made to have three study tables
in that crowd? I think they managed to put a third
one in there in front of the window or something
like that. And they had only two closets, which we
were even starting off with, but not even too large
for one person but it was it was not very easy to
operate in and the other of course the other
problem as i indicated with all these veterans
coming back even those who had not performed too
well academically before they went to the war most
of them had gotten married and gotten the gi bill
and they were determined to make their mark and
many many who had barely passing averages
suddenly were straight-a students and it was
pretty
Was the temporary housing for the veterans over
around the football stadium, was that yet there?
Well, they used the project houses. Okay. They
used those, but then they built on the north side,
they brought in all those barracks, and that's
where most of the veterans lived. And there were a
lot of barracks on campus about where the Brocker
building in that area were used for classrooms. I
remember many classrooms were held in. pretty
unsatisfactory. I mean, they couldn't be cooled,
well, we didn't have air conditioning, and even
pretty hard to heat, but there were a lot of, just
one barrack, all temporary buildings, and the
housing, well, that wasn't even too long ago when
they turned, that served A&M for many, many years
for barrack student housing. Do you remember
seeing some veterans who were badly injured
hobbling to class? Uh, not too many. There were
some, and of course they loved to kid the younger
ones of us that hadn't had all the experiences that
they had and made fun about it and so forth. But they
also, I think, were good role models because they
studied and they were in the business. And you were
settled into your major by now? I think so, yeah,
pretty well. I was headed in that direction. I
guess the two general things that we hadn't
commented on, and I'm not sure when these
happened, there was a famous revolt, senior
revolt, where the seniors, because of the
crackdown on hazing, as I recall, and the, the
Oprah's was president at the time, and he cracked
down on, and the senior commission, who were
commission officers, decided they would push him
in a corner by offering their resignations, and It
probably happened my freshman year. It could have
been my sophomore year. But anyway, the seniors
had everybody fall out late one evening, 9, 10
o'clock, with bearing torches, marched on the
president's home, and they, with a great deal of
ceremony, they handed him their resignations as
protest to this crackdown on core activities. And
to their utter surprise, he accepted it. And I
didn't know really what the, I was just marching in
and marching back. But anyway, that was one of the
interesting things that happened. Also during
this period, it might have been about my sophomore
year, we had a lot of publicity focused on campus
that there was a Life magazine came down and did a
story. and did a picture of the entire corps
assembled in front of the mess hall. I'm in that
picture. I still find myself. Have you ever seen
that? Yeah. And that was a big activity. Anyway, in
the sophomore year, as I said, that was the year I
started working in the library full-time and
enjoyed that aspect of it. I may have had been for
that. I don't know if I could have either paid for my
education because I probably averaged working
about 30 hours a week mostly in the evening like
when I got to the after I did my apprenticeship
running the stacks you moved up a little and
finally got to the reserve desk which was the ideal
place to be because in a three hour period you might
have an actual work of maybe a half an hour or 45
minutes and then occasionally somebody would
come in but the idea was the books were on reserve
for two hour use The student could come in, get the
book, and then turn it in. You'd have to shelve it
and take care of that aspect of it. But it was a
wonderful place to study. It was quiet, and the
resources were handy and all that. Now, the
library was a quiet place to escape from hazing,
wasn't it? Well, yeah, for a lot of people. That's
what I mean. But it was a wonderful place, and
especially with three to a room. It was a wonderful
refuge. I probably would have gone there anyway if
I could have. But see, the core of regulations was
that unless you had a job, you were expected to be in
your room. Oh. Even as a sophomore. Now, you didn't
have the, you weren't tied down where you had to
stick at your desk. But you had to stay in your room,
too. I mean, you could move around and you could
visit with colleagues and so forth. But they were
also enforcers. They'd walk up and down the hall
periodically to make sure of the freshmen. The
freshmen always had to keep their door open. But
could you claim that you were in the library doing
homework? Yes, well, yes, occasionally. But then
you could only do it. But if you worked, I mean, you
put that on your schedule. You placed your
schedule on your door so the upperclassmen would
know how to account for you. And if there was a
vacant period, you'd have to account for it. And it
was nice to feel at work and so forth, where you
could escape some of that activity. And the
librarian at this point was whom? I can't remember
for sure. If you name the names, I might recognize
them. I don't remember. He was a former English
professor. Tommy Mayo? Mayo. Oh, he still was?
Okay. Maybe. Because he was the director for a
long, long time. But I had very little contact at my
level with him. Describe the environment of the
library at that time. Well, it was basically the
Cushing part, as you know. I'm not even sure. I
can't even remember as much where the downstairs
were used, where those exhibition rooms are now.
The main center was the second floor, where they
had on the west side, as it still is there, this huge
long reading room. That's where the reserve desk
was located at the entrance. And then, on the east
side, they had the circulation desk, where the
students ran and accepted the request for books
and ran the hand stacks and brought them back to
whoever requested them. Was there ever any
hijink, any pranks in the library? Not that I'm
aware of. I'm not aware of any. Speaking of pranks,
of course, you've heard this before. Sometimes
with the tacit blessing I guess of the juniors and
seniors, some sophomores really got out of line. I
mean they were the enforcers in terms of the
paddling and the hazing and so forth. Of course it
was presumed that the juniors and seniors put them
up to it to some extent, but sometimes a little
sometimes some sophomores got a little too
enthusiastic and the the way for the freshmen to
strike back was roundouts. You knew that. They'd
get a wastebasket full of water, and usually it was
water, but if he was really obnoxious, sometimes
it was treated water. There were some human some
human fluid. And it often really helped. It cooled
off the ardor in terms of some of the—another
practice—this was mostly done on piers. You'd
short-sheet people, if you've heard of that. That
was some of the activities. I told you about hazing
the students always trying to play pranks on the
campus cops, the KKs as we called them, wherever we
could, because they were regarded as not too
intellectually swift, and that was some of the
side activities. Now, was the, did y'all call it
the quack shack then? Yeah. Describe it. Well, I
had a very, I guess it was, no, it was later on, it was
generally lowly regarded by the students. I mean,
you went there as a last resort. In fact, I could
tell you a story. I almost died there myself later
on. I might as well have entered. I think I was
further along. but I got a very bad strep
infection, it might have been my junior year, and
antibiotics had just become available, but they
were treating me here, they had only one aged
doctor as I remember, and maybe a nurse or two, and
that was it, but they had a hospital, a little,
several beds, and I was in there, and which we've
discovered since then that I I'm allergic to
sulfa, but that's what they were treating me with,
sulfa. Same here. Instead of penicillin, I mean,
they didn't... About that time there was a
colleague of mine from my same community who was
one class ahead of me, who we started riding, he had
a car and I didn't, sometimes that was my ticket to
get home. Anyway, he was concerned about me and
even though we didn't live in the same dorm or
anything, he looked after me and he was raving with
these people you've got to do something because at
that time i was not even conscious and he took it on
himself to take me out of there and took me home to
the family doctor who gave me penicillin and two
days later i was back in school i mean you know the
penicillin was really marvellous but i think the
uh i guess the budget was such they had it was an
elderly gentleman who was here and as i said it was
generally a place to be avoided I guess if you were
an accident, you were carried there. And I guess
anything more serious was taken to the local
hospital or something like this. Now, since you,
as a sophomore, were not a hazer, did your buddies,
did your classmates look down on you? Did they
tease you about it? No, no particular problem.
There were always enough that were eager enough
to, I guess it was their revenge for what they had
done. experience as freshman, but I didn't see it
as that way. I thought, you know, sometimes the
cycle has to be broken, but no, I don't think so, and
as I said, I kept, you know, I was more interested in
academics, I have to indicate, and I tried to keep
as low a profile as possible in terms of the core
activities. I didn't have anything against them,
but I felt the primary purpose of coming here was an
education, and I felt some of that wasn't
contributing to the education. Another thing I
guess I could comment on was, and you've probably
heard this too, and I had visited, because I park in
that particular area, with some of the bonfire
leaders in the last several years.
If they had continued the tradition as we had it
when we were here, there wouldn't have been a
problem as far as I see it. The tradition then was
you had a good big bonfire, but you did no work on it.
absolutely none until the second last game which
was usually at that time there was a flat pattern
with TCU which was about a weekend a week it was
about 10 11 days before the TU game and everybody
went out and did the work then but we built one layer
which you know couldn't fall I mean just one cone
layer made a pretty good fire and that was it we were
not allowed to work on the other And the other,
there were some other traditions, as you're
probably aware, when we played SMU, all the
freshmen had to wear spurs, made out of coat
hangers with bottle caps so they'd, you know, spur
the ponies and that type of thing, and there were
some other traditions like that, that every time,
you only look forward to the next game, you never
look beyond the second, I mean, beyond the next
game, and went on from there. But I often say if
they'd have kept with it, didn't get competitive
in seeing how high they could get and I've been
observing this the last several years that you
know this is an accident waiting to happen and I've
told told several people I have a good engineering
friend I play tennis with who is a structural
engineer and he's he has had filed numerous
reports pointing out that you know this was an
accident waiting to happen but anyway I think they
ought to go back to if they want to have a bonfire
have a modest one and it still makes a pretty good
fire. And your work on the bonfire was where? Were
you a cutter, a hauler, or? Well, it really, it was
more of a scrounging operation. I mean, we picked
up, there was trash in there, too. I mean, there
were some logs, but I mean, I think it started out
with just trash. Oh, before the war, I know. Yeah,
and then later on, they started making a mixture of
it, but we were told, I mean, that was one of the
hazing, if you see a toothpick, pick it up. It's
something to put on the bonfire, and so people just
kept gathering, and I guess the cutting started
about that time, But we had no machinery, cranes
and all of that stuff. We did everything
ourselves. And it was pretty much a big effort
right at that time. Of course, usually it was rainy
and sloppy and everything. Now, how did you carry
it to the bonfire site? On shoulders. I mean, a gang
of 10 or 12 people, there was a big lock, and you'd
push it up manually. I mean, there was no machinery
whatsoever. All right, before the war, I've had
some people tell me that they borrowed from the
railroad station those little carts. Yeah, I
think that might have been true. Yeah, they might
have used some of those. And it was in front of the
MSC. In the drill, on the drill field? It started
out, yeah, it was in the, yeah, that's where it was.
I can't remember when it was, it might have been
while I was here. They changed it to the other drill
field over here behind Duncan. But starting out it
was on the parade ground in front of the MSC, yeah.
Let's see, were you, didn't, did Eisenhower come
to visit during your student days as a general? I
can't remember. I would have remembered, I think,
if you had. I was trying to remember when. I don't
know what the year was. Let's see. Academically,
who became your counselor, advisor? Who did you
turn to for advice? What to take? Well, I had this
earlier advisor in agricultural engineering as I
got to, I guess, going more to animal science. I
never really had one. I of course made an
acquaintance with the department head and became
a lifelong friend, Dr. Miller, who was head
department head, and there were other people,
O.D. Butler,
Bill Warren, who's back here, who was head of the
department at Auburn, I guess they moved back
here. All right, who, as you look back on it, what
were the factors that led you toward your major? I
guess basically my 4-H experience because I had, I
had sheet projects and a lot of hard projects and I
was just particularly interested in that field
and I guess at that time, well I guess I was pretty
well aiming toward becoming a county agent or
preparing myself to come on and The animal aspects
of a county agent's work are pretty important. I
mean, you can go either ironic or—if you go animal,
you're a little weak in the other, but you have to
pick it—you still get a balanced course. Who were
the key faculty members and or courses that shaped
your— Well, I don't know if it shaped it, but I
certainly can recall some for one extreme or the
other. And I guess I would have to say the best
single professor that I ever encountered was Tom
Harrington in chemistry, freshman chemistry. I
took that as the second year here, because I told
you we had to switch. We took the practical
courses. And I was told that the conventional
wisdom of Aggies was that chemistry, there were
records of people taking it five, six times or
finally going to a junior college or somewhere and
getting it transferred. and it was a very tough
course, and I was told that I was hopelessly going
to be lost because I never had high school
chemistry. I took high school physics. For some
reason, because of the switch from a rural school
to another, I couldn't get it in, and they said, you
know, you're going to die in this thing. Well, I
really didn't want to take it again. And so I really
studied hard, and then later on I visited with Dr.
Harrington about it, and he said, you were better
off the way you were than the ones who had it in high
school, because they thought they had it made, and
after about four weeks, they were in new
territory, and they hadn't really learned to
study it. But I made good grades in chemistry, but a
part of it was because I really worked at it, And Tom
Harrington was just a wonderful lecturer. What
made him a wonderful lecturer? He had a dynamic
voice. He was enthusiastic. He, you know, kept
your interest. I remember, you know, I guess it's
still that way, chemistry lecture room, you're
familiar with it. I guess it holds, what, 250, 300
people? Yeah. Very easy to go to sleep in there,
huh? And I guess sometimes, but it was hard to sleep
with him because he was such a dynamic professor.
But I remember one time he filled a balloon with
some, had all these gas outlets on the laboratory,
filled the balloon one time and raised it up and
then put a Bunsen burner up to it and it popped so
loud the dust came out of the cracks of the building
and that kept a lot of people from going to sleep
from that because they almost had heart attacks
when that went on. But he was a wonderful
professor. Did he have any key attributes in terms
of you must do this or that or you may not do? No, I
mean... What if you went to sleep? Did he wake you
up? Well, I don't, it was, as I said, pretty hard to
go to sleep under him because he was such a good
lecturer, and of course you better take good notes
because the tests were, you know, pretty much all
the material presented in the lecture, but I
actually enjoyed it. Did he have a student
nickname? Did the students give him a nickname?
Not that I remember. I've often thought how almost
everybody else had a nickname, but I've never
heard one for him. No, I can't remember. And as
unlike anybody else. There was not a lot of
entertainment here on the campus. We had movies on
Saturday night for 25 cents in Guyon Hall. I guess
there was a campus theater, but I think they
charged more. and couldn't afford it, but the
students were always looking for some
entertainment, and professors were fair game in
terms of the observation, and this is, I know his
name, but I don't want to mention it, but there was a
stereotypical math, absent-minded math
professor who lived in one of the houses here on the
campus, but he was single, he didn't have a family,
and he always rode his bicycle. Have you heard this
story? rode his bicycle to classes back and forth.
And he had, the students always, I mean not always,
but there was usually a group gathered to see this
daily procedure. He'd come back home, the garage
didn't have a door where the car comes in. He didn't
have a car, he just had a bike. The door was off, it
was open to the street, but there was a little side
door, like a regular house door, that he came up to,
carefully unlocked, opened the door, pushed the
bike in, closed the door, and locked it. You could
see all of this open. And I don't know if he just did
it to entertain the students or if he was really
that out of it. They had another story about him
that one time he accidentally bumped into a
student, ran into a student biking. And after the
student assured himself nobody was hurt, the
professor asked him, he said, do you remember
which way I was going? Because if I was going that
way, I was coming from home. But those kind of
things, as I said, we were desperate for
entertainment. What did you and your buddies do
for fun? Say, on a weekend or... I always worked. I
mean, every weekend, unless there was a football
game, I still, you had to go to a football game. As a
corps member, you had to go to conference games.
And, of course, when the game was here, you had to
participate. And that was, I guess, about the main
thing. Very rarely did I go to the movies with
friends. Occasionally, I mean, there was some
intramural, they were very strong on intramural
activities, which was probably good. One
of the big, big activities after a big rain, there
was always mud football, you know, where you
tackle and you could follow the slash and you
somewhat needed a shower after that. The other
thing that was, I guess, shocking for me,
particularly in my freshman year, was the In
freshman athletics, they have very high
requirements, and even though I worked hard on the
farm, I didn't run a lot. They had the expectation
when you came here to pass first semester of PE, you
had, they had a track over on the other side, they
called it the Miles and Seven. You had to run that in
a certain prescribed time, and if you're not in
shape, you know, that takes a while, and they had
Putnam, do you remember the name? Is that the name?
Yeah. Anyway, he would start us off and then, you
know, pass us all up and be there to clock us in, but I
think the rule was you had to make it under, I'm not
sure of this, under thirteen minutes to get an A or
B, and between thirteen and fifteen you'd get a C or
D depending on how you did on everything else, but
that was a huge requirement for people and luckily
I had heard about it and I started on the farm
working up to getting in shape and they had you know
so many push-ups chin-ups and all I guess it was
from the military they were you know the basic
physical standards that they kept but they were
fairly rugged but there was a lot of uh if uh
activity I said there were intramurals. The Corps
always, after say the period of between five and
six in the evening, there were usually some
intramural activity that you were expected to
participate in. But on a Saturday night when there
wasn't anything scheduled, you and your buddies
didn't go to the clay pits or? No, I never did. I
mean, I'm sure the others did and there was, I heard
about Ed's, I never knew where that was, but as I
said, most of my time was spent working and I guess
later on we did begin to notice the interest in the
opposite sex and you've heard of these stories
about how it was handled when you had dates. I mean I
did I think have two or three dates come down on home
games and you knew about evacuating a dormitory
and you'd have to furnish the sheets and then the
The joke was that you wouldn't wash those sheets
for about a month because they had this wonderful
smell of perfume and so forth. Yeah, one whole dorm
was evacuated, and you had to find a place to sleep.
And how did the Aggies treat those young ladies?
Oh, with great respect, tremendous respect. And
it was a real honor for the ladies to come here. I
mean, that was a coup as far as their peers were back
home were concerned. And, of course, they were to
the traditions with TWU, particularly when we
went to Dallas or Fort Worth. They came down in
mass, and there was some interaction. Of course,
there was that earlier tradition of where you
wrote your counterpart with the same box number.
Sometimes that led to disaster. Sometimes it led
to, I guess, enduring relationships, as I heard. I
have heard you have, too. On Sunday morning, did
you go to worship? Yes, I started to. I really
didn't have much of a religious upbringing in my
home. I mean, my my mother had been I guess of the
Protestant or Lutheran persuasion my father had
been Catholic but his father had fallen out with
the church and they really didn't do much but I felt
it's part of my education and I started I guess with
the Lutheran but then the Presbyterians had the
better facilities over in the YMCA they used the
and so I fell in and to this day I'm a Presbyterian
because of that But I went, you know, I went most
Sunday mornings. Did you know Mr. Cashin? Oh, yes.
Describe him. We don't know how—I don't have much
about him. Well, he was the YMCA. I mean, that was
it, and he ran that— I guess he was Presbyterian,
too. I guess, I remember the Lutherans had the
second choice of facilities. They had to meet in a
different room, but they had a regular chapel that
the Presbyterians used because they were one of
the few churches that didn't have their own
facility here. What about his, what did he, what
physically, what did he look like and his
personality? Well, he was, as I best remember him,
he was sort of slightly built. And not too outgoing
or talkative. I mean, they ran their program over
there, YMCA, and they had other activities, you
know. It was a refuge. I don't think I ever used it
much as a refuge. They had a barbershop there and a
few other recreational activities. Did you meet
either of his sons? Well, yes, I knew them very
well, of course. He served on a bank board with him.
No, but as students? No, no, I didn't. I guess Red
must have been in school with me, but I think he's a
little younger than I am. And Jim? Jim was even
younger, I think. No, no, Jim's the older one. Oh,
yeah, Jim was the football player. Yes. And Red was
not, but he learned how to play. That's right. Jim
was a good football player. What about, was there
Religious Emphasis Week then? Oh, yes, they had
Religious Emphasis Week. and there was not too
much separation of church and state in fact I guess
that's one of the things that turned me off with the
Lutheran program the minister at that time was a
little too I guess I had a spirit of
your religiosity is something you do and don't get
it from the outside. This particular Lutheran
minister took it on himself, because the churches
were given the information from registration,
who was Presbyterian, who was Lutheran,
Catholic, and so forth, and they knew where you
lived, and this Lutheran minister took it on
himself to knock on doors at 8 o'clock in the
morning in the dorm to remind them. Lutheran
students to come to church, and I guess I'd put
Lutheran on them, and I resented that. I mean, I
thought that was a private morning, and you know,
if I wanted to go to church, I would, but it kind of
turned me off at the time, but I mean, there was a lot
of, and they had the religious emphasis week, they
had activities right here on the campus of
outstanding ministers or speakers coming in and
so forth. Were there Sunday night? Oh, Sunday
night activities and Wednesday night, and you
wouldn't, Nothing else would be scheduled on
Wednesday nights or on Sunday evenings. Was there
any food served? Oh, yes, and girls were often
there.